Business Prac Day 4 activity

SCRUM
The Scrum can be described as a technique which is continously updated.It breaks a big project into sprints,which are a short period of time which allows you to work on something the present how far you've gotten.It uses alot of communication.

Advantages of using SCRUM technique:

Flexibility and Adaptability

Creativity and Innovation

Time-to-Market

Lower Costs and Improved Quality

Improved Customer Satisfaction

Disadvantages of Agile and Scrum

Training and Skill Required- Requires experienced and committed members

Organizational Transformation-may require changes to organisation to make it work

Scalability

Integration with Project/Program Management


FEATURE DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT (FDD)
This technique can be described as one where the is functional software at all times.This technique works well because you build on working parts of software to complete the entire project.

Advantages of using FDD technique:

Adaptive to changing environment (Flexible)

FDD ensures customer satisfaction through active involvement of users.

Least documentation

Reduces risks of development since reviews are done regularly

Disadvantages of using FDD technique

So if the customer representative is not clear about the product features, the development process will go out of the track

Lack of documentation can be a disadvantage if some new members join in the middle of the launch.


Time consuming and wastage of resources because of constant change of requirements

More helpful for management than developer than developers who have to cope with ever changing requirements

These are the key people in this technique-Project Manager,Chief,Architect,Development Manager,Domain Experts,Class Owners,Chief Programmers


XTREME PROGRAMMING (XP)
This can be regurded as the most simple technique, as it incourages simplicity and client interaction.

Advantages of Xtreme Programming

Fast-Last only for several months

Open communication helps every team member to be up-to-date always
Reduces Costs-Feedback loop is reduced.

Teamwork 

Disadvantages of Xtreme programming

Location-XP projects are difficult to implement when the customer is away from the developmental team.

Lack of documentation-The constant changes cannot be documented properly. 

Stress-There is a lot of pressure working with tight deadlines.

Code overcomes design-The focus of XP is definitely the code rather than the design. 


DYNAMIC SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT METHODS (DSDM)
This technique is for projects with very littel time to come up with something,As it focuses on 20% of system requirments and 80% of what the business needs in order to complete any given task.

Advantages of Dynamic Systems Development Model:

Users are highly involved in the development of the system so; they are more likely to get a grip on the software development project

In this model, basic functionality is delivered quickly, with more functionality being delivered at frequent intervals

This method provides an easy access by developers to end-users
In this kind of development, approach projects are delivered on time and within a specific budget
 
Disadvantages of Dynamic Systems Development Model:

The first thing is DSDM is costly to implement, as it requires users and developers both to be trained to employ it effectively.

It may not be suitable for small organizations or one-time projects

It is a relatively new model, therefore, it is not very common and easy to understand

